+++
title = "A Complete Temporal Transcription Factor Series in the Fly Visual System"
date = 2022-04-14T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Nikolaos Konstantinides*", "Isabel Holguera*", "Anthony M. Rossi*", "Aristides Escobar", "Liébaut Dudragne", "Yen-Chung Chen", "Thinh N. Tran","Azalia M Martínez Jaimes", "Mehmet Neset Özel", "Félix Simon", "Zhiping Shao", "Nadejda M. Tsankova", "John F. Fullard", "Uwe Walldorf", "Panos Roussos", "Claude Desplan"] 


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Nature*"
publication_short = "In *Nature*"

# Abstract.
abstract = "The brain consists of thousands of neuronal types that are generated by stem cells producing different neuronal types as they age. In Drosophila, this temporal patterning is driven by the successive expression of temporal transcription factors (tTFs)1,2,3,4,5,6. Here we used single-cell mRNA sequencing to identify the complete series of tTFs that specify most Drosophila optic lobe neurons. We verify that tTFs regulate the progression of the series by activating the next tTF(s) and repressing the previous one(s), and also identify more complex mechanisms of regulation. Moreover, we establish the temporal window of origin and birth order of each neuronal type in the medulla and provide evidence that these tTFs are sufficient to explain the generation of all of the neuronal diversity in this brain region. Finally, we describe the first steps of neuronal differentiation and show that these steps are conserved in humans. We find that terminal differentiation genes, such as neurotransmitter-related genes, are present as transcripts, but not as proteins, in immature larval neurons. This comprehensive analysis of a temporal series of tTFs in the optic lobe offers mechanistic insights into how tTF series are regulated, and how they can lead to the generation of a complete set of neurons."

# Summary. An optional shortened abstract.
# summary = ""

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-04564-w"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = true

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Temporal patterning", "Drosophila visual system", "Fate specification", "Neural diversity"]

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["Spatiotemporal patterning in the visual system"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = "Adapted from figure 1 of Konstantinides, Holguera, and Rossi et al."

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
  preview_only = true
+++
